we
are going to do a short stream
just under a couple hours.
I got one meeting and I'm back for a
bunch more hours until dinner and then
I'm back in the evening. Then tomorrow
I'm here for like probably at least 11
hours,
hopefully 12.
I want to just completely crush the
low-level side today with puff with
puffer.
but we're going to get started and see
what we can do. Uh there are some
experiments that I have to check on
first,
make sure that is progressing well.
But yeah,
a lot of this stuff's going to be new
for me as well. But we're going to
figure it out and it's going to be good.
Okay.
Well, first of all, this Neptune stuff
was a mess. We can just ignore that.
Like nothing good there.
Okay. And then I also have
Let me go grab it.
my window go.
Uh, that doesn't look good.
No object max cost.
Ah, I see.
That's annoying.
Why did this not get merged correctly?
Let's take a couple minutes to fix this
first. Hello, Crutch.
There's someone who wishes to be as
technical as you. Uh, guides on my X
here. A good starting point.
These two guides.
Let's figure out what the heck happened
here.
There is no max cost thing in here at
all.
How did this get um
how' this get merged?
Okay, let me go grab the other
other box.
Morning, Nick.
And good morning.
That's two different nicks. Good
morning. Good morning.
Okay.
So, what to do? Uh, where I left off, I
was messing with cudggraphs.
I don't know if I want to start messing
with cudigraphs again right away.
I would like to figure out what it's
going to take to make this thing fast.
because then yeah, there's also BF16.
Okay. So, there's a fair bit of stuff to
figure out
what we're going to do here.
Automatic hyperparameter. Yeah, that's
what it does.
Okay, I guess one thing that we could do
is we could figure out how much overhead
is coming from this this thing.
Uh let's go comment all this graph
stuff.
right. So, there's your base SPS
4 mil.
We're just trying to get like a perf
test on this thing.
Oops.
Why is my stupid LSP not catch this?
Okay.
So
this gives us upper bound right.
I just start writing it. I don't know.
It's just C
All right, this is upperbound at the
moment. So, this is a bad upper bound,
which should be way faster than this.
It should be way faster than this,
right?
Your audio doubled? Why did nobody
freaking tell me that?
How is my audio doubled? What the hell?
Hang on.
So this is the smallest possible thing,
right?
Oh, we're going to figure this [ __ ] out.
No, we are going to figure this out.
Hello, Son of Liberty.
Um, today we're really going to get into
some deep perms
is the goal. I'm going to see what's
actually required for 10 mil steps per
second and we're going to just start
hammering at it.
And if there's like fundamental stuff in
the way, we're going to tear it apart.
Yeah. So, this should be the simplest
possible
thing.
Wondering why did you go for pure C
instead of C++? I'm doing C++ right now
and this [ __ ] is giving me [ __ ]
depression. This is awful. This is a
terrible language. Everybody who did
this stuff should feel terrible about
themselves. Like this is just horrible.
This is like the worst possible
everything at once. God. Like literally
all the stuff that's in here that's like
all the C++ stuff exists purely to make
my life miserable.
It's like, "Oh yeah, let's just add this
feature. Add this feature." And then
soon enough, you have no idea what the
[ __ ] is going on. You have no idea what
things are fast or slow. You have no
idea how anything works under the hood.
The documentation is non-existent.
It's just not a fun time, man. All my
dev and pure is so easy. I can show it
to a first year undergrad and they can
read it and understand what's going on.
It's just like you write the exact same
code and it'll run on a GPU as well.
There's just no reason for any of this
stuff.
Yeah, actually it got to the point where
I started doing this because the Python
uh the Python side was actually too hard
because like there 10 more stupid things
strapped onto it in order to avoid the
problems that were created by Python
itself.
YouTube comments do not show up.
Uh
oh, that's weird.
The hell?
Why do they show up in my chat here? I
see them in my chat window, but not in
this one. The heck?
Uh, hang on. Let me fix that.
That's very, very weird.
Settings, embed, and stream.
If you were to convert a whole MMO from
Java,
it would be easier to just go from Java
to C. Honestly,
like C++ is just going to create
problems.
Uh it wouldn't be easier to write it
from scratch if you're trying to match
an existing thing. You would still
reference the original for all the
mechanics, but yes, there would be core
systems that would shrink from 10,000
lines of code to like a 100.
Full rewrites are like generally
easiest, but they're also kind of
dangerous in the sense that you'll be
hunting discrepancies forever.
All right, there we go. Now the YouTube
chat shows up. Is Puffer Lib your
creation? It's become a community
project at this point, but yes. And I
still handle most of the core algorithm
dev and higherf stuff and whatnot.
latest version is written in C++.
Well, if you mean RS3, okay, but then
they also have Runescript
and a bunch of other things.
But like just being written in C, like
you can make a mess in any language,
right? And you're basically guaranteed
to have one when you have a big team and
an old codebase.
Like QK, have you taken a look at um at
like Neural MMO 3?
Like go in your head, think about how
you'd write it and think about how long
the code would be and then go look at
the code. Now,
I'm not saying I would do it exactly
that way for a much larger project.
There would be it would be a little bit
more broken up than it is, but nowhere
near the amount you'd expect.
way more than 28. So, exactly. Okay, so
this is why I make this point, right?
Like
in my mind, if you have two pieces of
code and one is 10% longer than the
other, I can't really tell you which is
better. But if you have two pieces of
code and one is twice as long as the
other, pretty damn good chance that the
one that's shorter is better. Um,
especially if the one that's shorter is
also not using like a ton of library
features and stuff and it's just plain
simple code, right? If you're using the
same set of tools and you're shorter,
it's probably better.
Do you think it's a good idea to write
torch and C?
Uh, I mean, actually CS231N will have
you write your own autograd, I guess, in
Python, but you can do it just as well
in torch.
Clomgraph is also that was like a nerd
snipe for my whole lab for a while
though. Yeah. scene because like you
can't actually compute that complexity
metric
complexity
like it's a metric you can't compute.
So like nerd snipe, oh we should
optimize for this. It's like well you
can't compute it. GG,
right?
Oh, you know why?
I know why.
Are you a research scientist?
I mean, you could say so. Sure.
M What the heck is MNC's?
I ask what is the work
he's in big labs?
I mean research is research right like
at the moment. So what I'm doing here is
I do high performance reinforcement
learning development. Um, it's a mix of
like increasingly low-level engineering
and algorithmic work trying to figure
out better algorithms and large scale
experimentation
trying to empirically discover which
things are better than others
and even like a little bit of UX and
community stuff since this is all open
source.
Did you measure performance trade-offs?
So huk you can always write C++ that is
as fast as C because like you can just
write C and C++. So it's going to be a
function of like how many of the fancy
C++ language features you use that
dynamically allocate memory and do like
other safety things under the hood
without you actually knowing what's
going on. Right? So like it's just it's
easier to make stuff fast in C than in
C++ because your default set of tools is
just fast and simple. Like there are not
a ton of things that you need to know
how they work in order to not use them
in a way that is slow. It's just you
have your tools. They are fast. You
write brain deadad simple code. Anybody
can read it. Sometimes you end up with
slightly more code than the C++ version.
Usually you don't even end up with more
code. And it's just that easy.
The only thing I found so far that I
really don't like doing in C, like one,
when you're obviously just missing
libraries for stuff. Yeah. Okay. And
then uh two is just built-in string
processing sucks. But like the m vast
majority of simulation work is so easy
in C.
What is limiting 10 million? That's what
I'm figuring out today, man.
So, I'm also I'm trying to hit 10 mil at
like a pretty conservative
um number of ends as well.
No, I have I have uh 10 mil ends. I No,
not 10 mil. I have 4k ends. So, it would
be way easier at 16k. I think I just get
10 mil at 16k, but that's too many.
So, I'm like perf optimizing. Like, this
thing is going to just be stupid fast.
Okay, this thing is going to be stupid
fast and it's going to work and we're
all going to be happy about it.
If you want to know actually the um
the one thing the one like pure
algorithmic discovery I could think of
that would change everything like would
change a lot of the engineering that I'm
doing uh is if somebody could find a way
to do basically if you could find a way
to do good credit assignment without
having to roll out like 64 plus time
steps but nobody has done this to my
knowledge like I don't think there is a
I don't I think there fundamentally
probably isn't even a good way to do it.
Uh in a couple of years, Puffer will
just have the field of RL as mature
stable tech that you can use that is
ultra fast that solves problems out of
the box.
And
I'm probably by then going to be working
on like cool applications hopefully some
stuff in material sciences, biological
sciences, uh various other industries
just like throwing this on really hard
problems
and a lot of custom simulator work for
new uh for domains that need the sims is
most likely
long-term use case a really fast RL just
like ludicrously powerful engine of
discovery.
It just makes simulation as a tech way,
way, way more useful.
You could take a full modern MMO, cut
the fat, and run the simulations.
Yes, you can absolutely run Runescape at
a million steps a second. If you mean
that,
there's no reason you can't. The corners
that you would cut would have like no
meaningful impact on the game.
Doom and Puffer. That's fun. I actually
have a binding for Doom, man. It runs
pretty fast if you set the rendering
settings low enough.
What the heck is wrong with this B
length?
Why is nobody doing that, Ben? Cuz
nobody knows how the [ __ ] to program
It's true. I swear nobody believes me.
Like when I like I describe the levels
of incompetence I see everywhere. It's
like, "Okay, you're just being edgy or
whatever." And then like people actually
start doing RL and seeing the way I do
[ __ ] with this and they go, "Oh, he
wasn't joking. Ask Spencer.
Spencer did this stuff for a year and
then we went to RLC together and I just
walked around the posters with him and
said, "Hey, look at that. Why does that
one suck?" He goes, "Oh, that's totally
messed up, right? Like those experiments
are meaningless. Yep. Okay, next one.
What about this one? Oh yeah, this one
too. You just go down the whole line and
you find maybe one that's like
semi-reasonable.
Mhm.
I mean, that's the funny thing is like
when you actually try to build stuff and
you don't get like mixed, you don't get
other motives like mixed into it, you
can kind of just crush things
unless you live in Europe and then you
can go do nothing.
I can go be a middle manager
Uh, okay. So, this is missing seek
length for some reason.
I don't know how that would have
happened.
train.
Oh, it isn't train.
The heck.
Big fan. It's a really breath of fresh
air compared to existing mainstream
fields. Welcome.
Come and build some cool stuff with us.
It's all open source. Any way to do
neural MMO environment visual rendering
other than the website been having some
trouble.
Simply stops after a few percentage.
What do you mean after a few percentage?
Only the demo demo button works.
I mean, you mean like this.
This is uh the dev build at the moment,
so there are a few rough edges.
Oops.
You mean like this?
You can also run it through torch as
well. You can do puffer eval
and then it'll run with more agents.
All of our uh all of our clients, they
all work locally and on the website.
It's not just web builds. They're all
written in C.
The agents are usually a little bit
smarter in um in PyTorch as well.
Hey Tim
The hell? C++ is such a dumb language,
man.
Why would it make this [ __ ] private?
Why would it make anything private?
Didn't know puffer lip supported been
working with neural MMO baselines.
Uh if you're working with neural MMO 2,
that is going to be the super old super
slow version. Neural MMO 3 trains at
half a million steps a second on one
GPU. We've trained it on up to 650
billion observations on one box.
It's pretty cool.
I would definitely uh definitely check
out the third one cuz that's the one
that's all tied into Puffer and has all
the viz
and has all the new stuff and is super
fast.
Look, I tried really hard during my PhD,
but I simply could not do as much
engineering as I had to to get the
project to where it needed to be back
then. Uh, now it's actually where it
needs to be, right? Like now the engine
is actually pretty much on point. It's
actually like usably Fast.
Okay. So, this runs. Yeah. So, it's
still slow,
which is interesting.
Like, we're bottlenecked by something
other than the network completely at
this point, right?
We have to be
Let's go try the reduce overhead thing
in in the Python version
Okay, we do have actual profiling here.
So
this one has learning
a very low percentage
What if I put this here?
Oops. Just uh just a little thought.
I'm not bashing on Europe like ever
unless people ask me about uh AI and
stuff
about like the AI policy.
For whatever reason, people kept asking
about it yesterday.
I'm saying
20.
Interesting.
This says seven
So then it's not this thing
good because we wouldn't expect it to
be.
No, I'm not going to say, oh, they use
Python, so that's like a wrong paper.
That would be completely stupid. Now, it
does contribute. Um, it's not even just
using Python. It's using the worst
slowest possible Python such that they
are running like 1 to 10 million step
experiments on environments that I can
solve with a vanilla algorithm in 3
seconds. So they're like basically their
code is so slow that they're stuck
solving problems that do not remotely
matter. Um and then they're like
developing new algorithms to solve easy
problems better with no testing
whatsoever on harder problems because
all their stuff is too slow to test on
anything harder.
So, like basically the best thing you
can possibly get out of a setup like
that is a clever idea that maybe works,
but that's like you publish a paper and
it's not actually here's something
that'll make anything better. It's like
here's a clever idea
and most of the the clever ideas don't
end up actually working on the harder
problems.
Look, Puffer here. I'm trying to get us
to train at 10 million steps per second
in our next update. Right? That's our
target. Many of them are training at
hundreds of steps per second.
Not thousands, hundreds.
At that point, you just can't do
anything. You can't do anything. You're
training on a potato.
May as well be.
What do they use to test? They used like
a million rappers on some of like the
older libraries
with slow M's in the worst possible
configuration that's been inherited from
three generations of traumatized PhD
students.
I mean, it's truly depressing work. I
don't even know how you do it without
going insane. It was starting to drive
me insane and then I like started at
least building something throughout my
PhD.
I'm trying to figure out where all our
damn computers going basically.
So right now
train is
Okay.
Six times.
Oh.
Aha.
We're doing it wrong,
aren't we?
Yes, we are.
I mean, with a small net really. That's
10 mil with a small. I meant to say
Okay. So, let's see how much slower it
is with this.
So, all the speed we can possibly
recover from just this architecture
change.
And I got to get my bench set in after
this.
Okay. So, we're actually Good thing I
checked, right? We're not losing that
much at all
on this,
right? We're really not losing very much
on this.
I has a new toy.
Um, do I want to open? Okay, good. I
thought this was going to be something
sketchy.
Huh.
Fun.
Is this yours?
If this is yours, can I convince you to
come apply some wizardry over to Puffer?
Not Zigg, but we're doing um mostly C
and CUDA
is the goal here. I'm trying to make
this stuff go fast. Be the fastest RL.
That's the point. Replace Torch. Yeah,
torch drives me nuts.
Can you explain to me why you have to
compile the model um if it's already in
Zigg?
I don't want to wrap it back in pi.
I have a Python front end for um Puffer
Lib, but we're adding a we're adding a
torch uh a torch back end that's the
torch CPP library for now. and we might
change that in the future. So, it's
pretty much just a case that like the
napkin map on what you should be able to
get out of small networks is absurdly
high and we're just nowhere nowhere near
that and I'm trying to figure out how we
can get it
You should be able to premputee that
though, right?
I guess in my mind I want one of the
main reasons I wanted to not do Python
is I just hate how all these compile
layers are JITs. So you have to wait for
your freaking RL to start up. Like you
have this tiny little network that
you're going to train for 30 seconds and
takes 20 seconds to compile.
H
cool.
Have you taken a look at any of the
stuff in Puffer? Here
we are um
trying to
make RL way faster. It's already the
fastest out there.
But we're trying to get even faster.
Taking that. Cool. Yeah. So, I mean, in
Puffer 3 right now, right, it's just
it's optimized Python uh torch with a
compile support and like there's one
kernel that we ship custom. Uh what I'm
trying to do in Puffer 4 is also have a
C++ backend and uh we're testing new
architectures that are more parallel.
We're going to get BF16. But then even
once you do all of that, you're just
nowhere near the speed that you should
be able to get out of these chips. And
I'm trying to figure out why. Like I
can't even figure out at this point
where the overhead is coming from
Another toy. Let me get my bench set in
and then I will look at your toy.
Otherwise, I sit here and be lazy all
day.
Not far off of the previous PB from when
I was 20 pounds heavier.
See what you've got here.
Yeah. So, I believe that you can do cart
pull that fast. We can do cart pull that
fast as well.
Wait, is this is this environment SPS?
You didn't get 120 mil training SPS,
right?
Might as po
What steps per second do you get in PO?
So the core thing I'm trying to figure
out is like how fast we can get this to
go
without writing assembly.
I are you doing this? Wait, is this on
is this GPU or not?
Cuz I can get these environment speeds
no problem. And just see we have uh we
have our own cart pole as well. and see.
Yeah, welcome spy
pure CPU. I see. Okay.
Yeah. So,
yeah, that's the tough thing. We
definitely need it to be if you do CPU
based, you can get stuff pretty fast on
very small nets, but then as soon as you
scale the nets at all, you're just
screwed.
Um,
so what I'm doing right now is we have
we first of all we always have a
recurrent cell of some type. Our uh 30
is LSTM. We're going to try a mining
grew I think for 40 if I can get it to
work properly. It should be able to be
much faster.
Um,
why am I running out of breath? Uh, I
205 on bar behind me. just did set of
eight.
It takes some effort
each level of this [ __ ] I say
I mean honestly man just like come hang
out in the puffer discord and stuff cuz
we're doing all sorts of low-level optim
right now and it's currently C++ cuz lib
torch is C++. I freaking hate C++. Um I
think Zigg is generally like fine. I'm
not doing my stuff in Zigg because it's
kind of a niche language with like a
hobbyist community and I think it's
going to be worse for adoption. But what
I would like to have right is if I am
stuck okay if if temporarily even let's
say I'm stuck with lib torch for a bit I
can probably get the actual usage of lib
torch to be very very close to just
clean simple C. Uh, and then the same
goes for CUDA. And then I just like
start stripping away all the extra
stuff,
EABI,
FFI, any lang.
Yeah, for sure. I mean, you can bind
stuff to anything, right?
I'm not super attached to Python. We
provide the Python binds. Um, and
there's always going to have to be like
some sort of Python implementation for
researchers, I think. But
like it's pretty similar either way.
At the moment, I'm just trying to figure
out how fast we can get RL to run.
Right.
H,
you're not going to supersede puffer
lab. I caught you here.
Faster single environment loops.
So faster single environment loops. The
problem is you can't get a fast single
environment loop to be fast on GPU
because the GPU expects batching.
Yeah, especially on CPU only, man.
You're you're way way better off just
trying to help us with this stuff
cuz I'm pretty sure
Hang on.
So this was this was one of our like
more junior contributors who wrote this
and probably get even faster would be my
guess.
64 million SPS on one on one core,
and that's by one of our uh less
experienced contributors as well.
Oh, cool. You were on the Isaac Lab RL
hackathon. Yeah. So, Isaac definitely
needs some help. That thing is slow as
hell.
The off policy thing I think is a
mistake. So I did go read if you didn't
read it already, go read my boot like
why RL failed to bootstrap blog. I'm
pretty convinced off Paul is just bad at
this point.
Puffer to Isaac. Cool.
What's this? Puffer to Isaac.
Hey, puffer.
Cool.
That's nice.
Yeah, man. If you can jam some lowlevel,
like there's a ton of lowlevel to be
done around here.
The RL rabbit hole is pretty deep.
My guides on X will help.
You can try to just make something
faster than Puffer if you want. A couple
people have. There's also Lucas, but
it's really really difficult to make
something that's like
actually provides the like the stuff
that you want and is also fast, right?
Like there are a couple libraries out
there that can do really really fast
stuff and they just write like a two
layer MLP in CUDA and it's like 32
hidden dim and okay, sure, but you can't
really train anything on that, right?
you need like at least like 100k per but
typically it's going to go higher than
that over time. Um 100k is already tiny
and you need some sort of recurrent cell
as well and ideally the flexibility to
try out new architectures as well. So
like
yeah it's pretty tough.
I could totally see a thing though where
like we just have um really like really
welltuned full kernels for each of the
network implementations,
right? And then you just basically
launch one kernel for some of our
specialized nets. I could see something
like that happening.
Like I said, there's tons of low-level
dev to just jam around here.
What are you doing for fusion though?
It's like the thing that I know actually
is guaranteed to work is just writing
one big kernel, right?
A lot of the tools for fusion out there
are like we'll try to fuse and maybe
it'll succeed and maybe it won't.
epilog prologue.
That doesn't work for everything though,
right?
Like they have a few specific
activations and you have to do the same
activation on everything.
this epilog prologue thing. I looked
into this yesterday and it was it was
kind of obnoxious in the sense to me
that it's just like a dramatically more
complicated way of just pasting the
matmole into your kernel and using it
directly because Nvidia's matt mole is
not open source, right?
Are there no like just come on somebody
has to have like an open- source
competitively benchmark matmo now.
Oh one enrolled optimized kernel. Yeah
but like here I'll show you what I'm
doing right now. Like this would be hard
to do with epilogs and prologues, right?
So this is the mining layer
and it's pretty simple for um even this
would be a little annoying with epilogs.
I think but then this is how you have to
do it for training.
So just use Kublast, but Kublast isn't
open, right? So you have to like you can
get the Kublast Matmo and then you have
a separate kernel launch, right?
I have to actually be sure that this is
the real bottleneck though.
I'm not exactly sure of yet.
Trying to think what we can figure out
from these PF numbers, graphs, and
streams.
Yeah, I was messing with cudggraphs
yesterday. It's such a pain in the ass.
Some part of me thinks, well, if I just
get uh if I just fuse everything, then I
really don't care about cudigraphs. But,
right,
cudigraphs are like so obnoxiously
restrictive.
The whole no in place operations thing
with the torch crudographs mess is just
so weird,
right?
I like in place operations.
Okay, so
this tells us something.
Oh, 4257. And then let's see if I do I
comment this.
but it's it's honestly not clear to me
like what is the relative overhead of
kernel launch for this? What is the
relative overhead of uh weird memory
access patterns not tuned for nets this
small?
Yeah, I like managing my own memory too.
That's why I write a bunch of C.
Most of our like our environments that
are written in C, we don't do dynamic
allocation like at all. Like we build,
we make the env we do all the init
and we delete everything when we close
the env. And there's nothing in the
middle. Everything's pre-allocated.
Yeah, you can add an arena to this as
well in like or was it area? Yeah, you
can add one of those in like I don't
know 20 lines of C.
Yeah, the ocean drone stuff. There's
going to be more drone stuff as well.
Uh, one of the guys that wrote that
we're bringing on as an intern for the
summer.
What problems do you have with strings
and see? Ah, strings and see are just a
pain to work with.
You sure? No, you don't get you don't
get equity as intern.
It was fun though.
RL framework train policy 490. Yeah,
stuff works surprisingly well.
I got to go pretty soon for uh one
meeting and I'll be back for the whole
rest of the day thereafter.
I'm trying to think like what this
indicates I should optimize.
Okay, I guess one other thing we can
think about is the number of batches.
So the size of 32k
Well, this whole thing is memory bound
though is the thing I have to keep in
mind. So, I'm computing off flops.
Maybe if I compute off of memory.
Hang on.
Chin gods are sad.
You're already too many layers of
abstraction up.
How many layers of abstraction up am I,
my guy? I'm like looking at writing my
own kernels on this thing.
So what like is is raw CUDA too abstract
for you?
Like I'm basically right now I'm timing
stuff in torch to see where the overhead
even is so I know where I can write
kernels and [ __ ]
right. You go ahead and implement P uh
implement PO in this and see how this
goes for you, right?
emitted by Zigg, then you can't possibly
tell me that it's too high level when
you're using the thing that's emitting
the low level.
I agree that torch C++ is too high
level. I hate it. But I'm working my way
down, right? Because I have this
existing We got Puffer Lip, which is the
fastest thing out there. It's like not a
toy.
And that like in 3 0 we get between
three and five million steps per second
without going to crazy high numbers of
M's or doing other [ __ ] Right? So
I'm trying to get to 10 mil and 40
and I'm like it's an incremental process
of basically figuring out where the
overhead actually is.
Cuz think about this, right? If I were
to try to just say, okay, cool. we're
just going to write the whole network in
a CUDA kernel and launch it or whatever.
Well, I have some pretty non-trivial
networks, right? And then I also have
some pretty non-trivial loss functions
that all need backwards as well.
So, like what I would love to be able to
do is just go grab all of the PyTorch
kernels and like actually see they're
fused and stuff, but that's also kind of
hard. So, like I'm kind of profiling and
working backwards for it.
Dude, this is not just yapping. This is
me trying to figure out what the [ __ ] to
do.
Like deving this stuff is not like
shoveling gravel. You have to think
about it.
Just need kernels for the ops.
Yeah. Okay. But have you ever tried to
go like actually get the kernels from
PyTorch and see what they're doing? It's
kind of hard and a lot of the time
they're just calling into Kublas or
whatever.
You're fighting quite a bit though. Like
if you just for instance, if you go try
to beat the PyTorch LSTM kernel, for
instance, it's actually kind of hard.
like they're just some really well
optimized kernels
and like I don't necessarily want to
just rewrite all the ops and torch that
it already has.
I want to minimize all the overhead
though.
I'm not I'm a noob. Why not build your
own kernels? Well, I will build some of
my own kernels, but do I want to just go
reimplement all like all the kernels in
PyTorch? I kind of just want to get
access to existing good kernels infuse
them in a reasonable way without all the
other overhead and stuff associated with
them.
Right. We were going to do memory
bandwidth checks.
Um,
I'm actually trying to think how I do
this.
I haven't done this one, this specific
thing before.
Uh, I think you can probably Hang on. I
can probably benchmark this thing via
memory bandwidth though instead of lops
and that'll give me a better idea.
this is all just my method. Well, I
mean, puffer is the least bad thing, I
think, at the moment. I'm trying to make
it way better.
What are you working on? What's puffer?
So, puffer lilib is a high performance
reinforcement learning library. In 3,
we're currently training RL on one GPU
at 3 to 5 million steps per second. I'm
working on Puffer 4, which has a bunch
of science side um improvements, some
cool visualizations, and the main thing
I'm working on is just some low-level
Perf optimization to see how we make
these smaller networks go really, really
Fast.
need to model more complex M's. Well,
you can just use our M's directly, man.
Like our M's are in C. You can just call
them.
You get inspiration from your clients.
Sometimes if we get like a bunch of
requests in one area.
I think if I play with this thing, I can
probably get a better model.
Okay, cool.
I won't learn anything. You will learn
stuff because there's a ton to write.
So, like if you want to write a complex
M, write a complex M. But don't reinvent
literally everything. Like, at least
read a couple of our M's, right? We have
a lot of the stuff that you'd want
correct. Like the main thing you need to
know, right, is like some of the
techniques we use plus the um uh the way
we do our like pre-allocated obsactions
buffers.
What are you trying to do here?
At the moment, I'm working on porting
our uh our RL training algorithm to C++
and trying out a few different network
architectures that should be a little
bit more performant and a little easier
to parallelize.
And I'm generally just trying to get
training to be cleanly above 10 million
steps per second.
Also just measuring a bunch of overhead.
Um I do have a meeting to run to in a
bit though.
H
I want to make a plan for this afternoon
though so that we know what to do as
soon as I'm back because it's just like
a I don't know 30 45 minute meeting. Um
it's kind of weird though because like
how do you think of slime?
Slime like
this this thing.
This is like this an old M that we don't
know who wrote the original for this,
but then David Ha popularized this. I
don't know if that's what you're
thinking of.
Um,
oh,
Lime RL. I've never heard of this. Oh,
cuz of course I haven't heard of it.
This is for LLMs. I don't really follow
LLM RL.
Puffer Lib is like ultra high
performance, small networks. Um,
tons of different domains, not language
though.
There's some good stuff from Tinqua forh
for sure.
I guess the thing is we really don't
know what the linear layer is doing
under under the hood other than just
calling Kublas.
H this is Auntu. And yeah, because
Puffer is everything but LLMs pretty
much
like all these nets are literally
running in one on one core in your
browser for all these demos.
like most of them train in seconds or
minutes and then we have some harder ms
that take longer.
Generally, we're trying to make RL just
be a really stable, mature uh
plug-and-play thing. And it's kind of
like LMS in that it's a really really
dependent on Perf optimization, but the
Perf optimizations that go into it are
really different from those that go into
LLMs.
I'm kind of at a loss for what we do
next with this. Uh,
So let's say that we leave it on like
this.
eh
no perf Drop.
Yeah. So, I mean, at this size net, it's
like completely bound by not actual
flops, right? Is what that tells us.
So, we know there's stuff to optimize.
Uh, we're going to have to do some calcs
on memory. I think that's what we'll do
next
because I think that what's happening is
I think I have this really high ceiling
in mind from um flops, but I'm not
accounting for memory bandwidth.
Okay. Uh, thank you folks. I'll be back
in a bit. I'm going to go to this
meeting. We'll do memory calcs after
this and then we'll see how much ceiling
there is, how much headroom there is for
optimizing.
All of Puffer is open source. Thank you
for reminding me. Everything's available
at puffer.ai. If you want to help me for
free, you start the GitHub. if you want
to get involved with the development on
Discord here.